Case file for 2023-00007 (#560)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2023/DIVD-2023-00007.md

---
layout: case
title: "Global VMware ESXi Ransomware Attack"
author: Max van der Horst
lead: Ralph Horn
status: Open
excerpt: "Criminals are attacking VMware ESXi servers vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974 worldwide to deploy ransomware."
researchers:
- Julian Roseboom
- Ralph Horn
- Max van der Horst
cves:
- CVE-2021-21974
product: VMware ESXi
versions: 
- "ESXi 7.x prior to ESXi70U1c-17325551"
- "ESXi 6.7.x prior to ESXi670-202102401-SG"
- "ESXi 6.5.x prior to ESXi650-202102101-SG"
- "ESXi version 6.4.x and earlier"
- "ESXI 5.x"

recommendation: "Upgrade your ESXi server to the fixed versions ESXi70U1c-17325551 (7.0), ESXi670-202102401-SG (6.7) or ESXi650-202102101-SG (6.5)."
start: 2023-02-03
end:
timeline:
- start: 2023-02-03
  end:
  event: "DIVD takes notice of global attacks."
- start: 2023-02-03
  end: 
  event: "DIVD starts cooperation with NCSC-NL."
- start: 2023-02-04
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning for first targetlist."
---

## Summary

> On February 3rd, DIVD took notice of an ongoing global ransomware attack using VMware ESXi servers vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974. This vulnerabilityis caused by a heap overflow issue in the OpenSLP service that can be exploited by an unauthenticated threat actor. The attack primarily seems to be taking place through the OpenSLP port, which is TCP or UDP port 427. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On February 3rd, DIVD took notice of an ongoing global ransomware attack using VMware ESXi servers vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974. This vulnerability is caused by a heap overflow issue in the OpenSLP service that can be exploited by an unauthenticated threat actor. The attack primarily seems to be taking place through the OpenSLP port, which is TCP or UDP port 427. 

```

> On February 3rd, DIVD took notice of an ongoing global ransomware attack using VMware ESXi servers vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974. This vulnerabilityis caused by a heap overflow issue in the OpenSLP service that can be exploited by an unauthenticated threat actor. The attack primarily seems to be taking place through the OpenSLP port, which is TCP or UDP port 427. 

Reviewer: Take notice betekent dat we het zelf gezien hebben. 
suggestie: became aware through….

Author: done

## What you can do

Update your ESXi hypervisor to one of the mentioned patched versions as soon as possible.

## What we are doing

> DIVD is currently gathering data and scanning for potential targets of this ransomware attack. The parties found to be vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974 receive notification with instructions on how to resolve this issue.

Reviewer: Dit klinkt alsof wij slachtoffers willen maken 🫣
```suggestion
DIVD is currently gathering data and scanning to identify systems (potentially) vulnerable to {% cve 2021-21974 %}, which are potential targets for this ransomware attack. The parties responsible for ip space containing servers found to be vulnerable to CVE-2021-21974 will receive notification with instructions on how to resolve this issue.

```
